---
title: Gophercon India 2023 - Or why you should visit more conferences
date: 2023-09-10
description: My experiences at GopherCon India 2023
collections:
  - travel
tags:
  - golang
---

The time right now is 11:11PM. Auspicious? Maybe. The flight i'm on, on the way
back from Pune to Bangalore, doesn't really care all that much.

I'm writing this because I've been told by my friends that I should write about
my experiences at a national-level conference.

Along those lines - it's been said that writing just shows you how sloppy your
thinking really is, and boy, am I seeing.

I want to answer two questions with this writeup.

1. Why should I attend Conferences?
2. How was my GopherCon India 2023 experience?

As I write these down I realize that I'm probably going to answer them the other
way around. Ha, gotcha.

Stream-of-consciousness begins

gophercon was a good conference. I saw a lot of systems engineers and backend
devs, and this reminded me that there are _still_ people interested in what
originally makes computer science interesting, which is doing hard things and
doing them fast, and at scale. Systems is still alive and kicking.

I've had multiple conversations with people over the past few days who work on
really large systems (Multiple Million Transactions Per Day). The experience of
peeling back the black box around our favorite abstractions and finding out that
this is something still understandable seems to be a universally enjoyed
activity - There are still people out here writing databases, building
distributed systems, making large-scale concurrency happen, creating magic at
the intersection of computer science and engineering.

There was a panel discussion on the role of generative AI in building future
systems. The consensus seemed to be that while GenAI is a good accelerant of
developer productivity, knowing the basics is absolutely essential so you can
spend less time fixing what terrible code the AI Generates by knowing how to
verify that it's correct.

Here's my take - sure, GenAI tools do help developers write code faster, but
there's still a strong case to be made for knowing how to do things yourself. I
pull from Freeman Dyson's essay, science as a craft industry - while software
development is an industry that still sees rapid change, it's still a creative
industry.

IMO There is a value in

1. knowing how to do things yourself, and in
2. occasionally doing them yourself

Abstraction enables an execution democratization, but it doesn't always enable a
knowledge democratization. Abstractions are encouraged for the former without
always being cognizant about the drawbacks of the latter.

Like - since when did we start shitting on people who wanted to do things from
scratch? It's sad that we see them as fools on a fool's errand as opposed to
explorers, armed with the compass of the first principles and a burning desire
to understand what goes on.

Actually supporting such explorers is a question of just about infinite nuance -
budget, product roadmap, tech debt, backlog, deadlines, etc. One might even
argue that while

I should be writing about what I'm arguing xD I am the "one might argue" in the
context of what I write. I want to take some time to think. We really just
stopped thinking. Nobody wants to just think - we're all too distracted by the
500 sources of information on our watches, in our phones, in our spectacles, and
hell, sometimes even in our brains. We should all spend some time just thinking.

The previous generation that now occupies the top positions in most companies
don't realize that today's generation is fighting to have the headspace to learn
new things. We are all too distracted, even to work. Algorithmic Feeds and
Social Media have us constantly glued to our phones - I feel like this is a
_generational_ disadvantage because if it takes me a flight with no internet to
actually write something like this, for the first time in a long time, then we
have a problem.

You shouldn't have to cut yourself off from the rest of the world to have the
headspace to think. It means that constant internet connection puts the world in
our heads, leaving us no space for ourselves. We become increasingly less
self-reliant, and I worry, less capable of independent thought. It's a muscle
that has to be developed, and is slowly starting to atrophy at a generational
scale.

It took Newton a barn and a summer to write the _Principia Mathematica_, and it
took Carl Jung an abandoned castle by a river to finally be a serious contender
to Freud, and this was pre-internet. They spent time with their thoughts, and
actively pursued the act of thinking. If such great minds required this kind of
isolation to do their best thinking, and career and life-defining work, I wonder
what it'll take for the normal person today, perpetually wired up and connected,
to reach that level of engagement with their thoughts.

I would hate to see a world where doing something, the act of creating
something, is just an interaction - as today's code-writing LLMs propose. The
act of creation is a human endeavor to build into our projects parts of
ourselves; Removing that safe space of exploring our own thoughts and heads
takes away a lot of what makes the act of creation fun.

To draw parallels to art, it's basically telling a painter that they shouldn't
paint, but just describe the painting. It's like saying "brush strokes are a
commodity effort, there's nothing special about them". The commoditization of
software development only accelerates this.

The same way we don't consider knowing how a painting looks to be a proxy for
painting talent, we shouldn't consider knowing how to describe code to be a
proxy for engineering or computer science talent.

I believe the joy of painting is that you start off with an idea, an image in
your head, a series of neuronal impulses that will itself into existance through
you, and playing a part in materializing it, bringing it to life, structuring it
and architecting it not despite but _because_ of the mistakes you make along the
way. Knowing how to make that whisper of an idea into a painting is what the
process of art is really all about; art is not about 'producing paintings'.
Software Engineering is not about 'producing code'.

What is a mistake but a moment of clarity on what you really want, and how to
get there?
