---
title: About Me
description: ""
wip: false
template: post.jinja
---

Hello! This is me. I have no clue what to write here.

## About Me

I'm ~~currently~~ almost done studying Computer Science and Engineering at PES
University, with a strong interest in Databases and Distributed Systems. I build
[projects](/projects/) to understand the same. You can check out my tech side
[here](/tech.html), and also look at my [proof of work](/proof_of_work.html) or
my [github](https://github.com/anirudhRowjee).

I like writing (to myself, to people, for people), reading (scifi, thrillers,
space operas, mystery), and playing guitar (acoustic). I also really enjoy
travelling and meeting new people.

For an insight into what i'm currently up to and what sort of content I usually
consume, check out the [gateway](/blog/gateway.html).

## About this Website

Fair warning - you _will_ find incomplete posts on this website. That's
[by design](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/Work_with_the_garage_door_up).

Here's a [map of this website](/tags/index.html). There's no search, so feel
free to use `Crtl+F` to do so - but in case you want a more curated exploration,
here's the rough structure of this site -

- [technology](/tech.html) is a large part of my life - I see it as a means to
  bring about change in the world we live in.
- [travel](/travel.html) is arguably my favorite way to learn about nature, the
  world around me, and the human experience.
- [research](/research.html) is how I attempt to learn more about my field and
  answer some of the larger questions.
- [poetry](/poetry.html) is how I express myself. I write about things I like.
- [talks](/talks.html) are how I share what I've learnt! I love doing talks, and
  I love introducing new ideas and watching people connect the dots even more.

The website you're reading right now is built with and generated by
[Saaru](https://github.com/anirudhRowjee/saaru) - A Bespoke Static Site
Generator written in Rust.

## Proof of Work

[click here](/proof_of_work.html)

### Uses

- Lenovo IdeaPad s540-E (w/ 20GB RAM)
- Neovim + AstroNvim [see dotfiles](https://github.com/anirudhRowjee/dotfiles)
- IKEA Lagkapten + Olov
- Royal Kludge RK81 (Outemu Brown Switches)
- Sony WH-CH710N
- Samsung Galaxy Tab s6 lite (for taking notes and dreaming big)
